
 Refresh this page on every visit to ensure you get the latest information.

 NOTE - this README is also available online at the following URL :

   https://www.langelaar.net/jnos2/documents/development.txt

 Last updated 25Jul2022, Maiko Langelaar, VE4KLM

 ----

 The following fixes should probably be applied to the latest official

   1) One should not be passing NULL or unknown pointers to the JNOS log()
      function, even if glibc 'might' tolerate it ? File : convers.c

 The following features are under development and/or in testing phase

   1) JNOS smtp server is now MIME aware when delivering to local mail areas

   2) For the BBS user, the ability to save sent mail to their own area

   3) Enhancements to JNOS snmp server

   4) Kludge Lower Case BID manipulation for incoming 'sb' proposals

   5) Multiple Heard Lists for individual ax25 ports

 You can get more detail on any of these features further below, including
 how to update source files, how to compile, how to configure if needed.

 The first thing you need to do is change to your JNOS source code directory,
 and then retrieve the latest development code using the following command :

      rsync  --av www.langelaar.net::development  .

 Please don't worry, this does not change existing source code !

 The development code is kept in subdirectories, allowing you to pick and
 choose which features you want to utilize, so this initial rsync doesn't
 change any of the sources files. That part is left to you, based on the
 instructions provided for each section further below.

 Please comment on ANY of these new changes and/or procedures. This is all
 newly revamped, so mistakes are possible, things might be broken.
  (please let me know if that is the case)

 ----

 1) JNOS smtp server is now MIME aware when delivering to local mail areas

  Run the following commands to modify existing source and compile :

     cp mimeaware/* .

     edit your existing makefile and do the following 2 tasks :

      add -DKLM_MAILIT_MIMEWARE to the end of PATCHES entry

      look for the 'UNIX=' section, add j2base64.o to the end of it

     make clean              (just to be safe, do a clean compile)

     ./configure

     make

 IF you choose to enable this feature, any MIME content is now processed,
 attachments are saved to user paths taken from ftpusers file, any base64
 encoded content is decoded, so when a user checks their mail, all they
 should see is text/plain and text/html, the rest will be references to
 any saved attachments. The text/hmtl probably should go elsewhere, but
 for now, this is how it all works. It will evolve as time permits.

 Warning - this alters the BODY (not the headers) of how the incoming mail
 will appear to the user. If you plan on forwarding your local mail areas
 to other systems, any referred attachments will obviously not make it to
 the remote systems you forward with - I hope that makes sense.

 A couple of sysops have already told me they are happy with that :]

 I will add another option for those that do NOT want the mail areas to
 be processed by smtp, and would rather just have a mime decode version
 of the RM (read message) and V (verbose message) commands.

 Having said that, another thing to consider is if you use an email client,
 like thunderbird, then having the SMTP processing MIME will not be great,
 since you will no longer be able to directly access the attachments.

 This is most certainly a work in progress, but it seems to work.

 ----

 2) For the BBS user, the ability to save sent mail to their own area

  Run the following commands to modify existing source and compile :

     cp savesent/* .

     edit makefile, add -DJ2_FILESENTMSGS to the end of PATCHES entry

     make

  I got rid of my custom function, decided to just use the existing addlist()
  and queuejob() function calls, which is the proper way to do it anyways.

  Also (for now), sent mail is just saved to the users mailbox, not a separate
  one for sent, will revisit that down the road if anyone complains (tnx Gus).

  PENDING ISSUE : if you list your messages, the TO field is not correct, for
  some reason smtpserv is supposed to reindex when adding the new mail entry,
  but it does not seem to be happening, yet if you manually 'index' your own
  mailbox at the JNOS console, it fixes the listing fine. I'm investigating.

 ----

 3) Enhancements to JNOS snmp server

  Run the following commands to modify existing source and compile :

     cp snmpd/* .

     make
 
 Added 2 more MIBS for sysLocation and sysContact.

 JNOS should now send a proper NoSuchName (NoSuchObject) response for any
 queries for MIBS that do not exist in the JNOS implementation, replacing
 the previous behaviour of always responding with sysName.0 (hostname) if
 a requested MIB could not be found or wasn't supported.

 NOTE : snmpwalk only works for ifName and ifDesc (nothing else) ...

 The usage (help) dialogue for the snmp command is now read from file,
 using my recent getusage() functions - /jnos/usage/snmp.txt for most
 configurations, you can find this file under usage subdirectory from
 your rsync session. Here is the new syntax for snmp commands :

    JNOS 2.0 - SNMP Configuration

     snmp ifaces     list all ports in numerical index form

     snmp ro community [ipaddr pattern]*

      NOTE : if you do NOT specify an ipaddr pattern, then ANYONE is allowed

     snmp sysLocation [any text]

     snmp sysContact [any text]

 ----

 4) Kludge Lower Case BID manipulation for incoming 'sb' proposals

  Run the following commands to modify existing source and compile :

     cp savesent/* .              (same source as BBS user save sent mail)

     edit makefile, add -DN2NOV_REQUESTED to the end of PATCHES entry

     make

  This is specific for N2NOV, but others may find it useful. There are cases
  of incoming 'sB' proposals where we need force lower casing of the BID, so
  this code 'helps to deal with it'.

 ----

 5) Multiple Heard Lists for individual ax25 ports

  This is VERY experimental, introducing the concept of multiple heard lists
  for the same ax25 port, providing a sysop with an ability to switch between
  lists on the fly, for cases where one is switching frequencies, or might be
  moving to a different band, throughout the day.

  I do this on my robust packet HF port quite regularly, so I want stations
  heard on a specific band, to be kept in a heard list just for that band.

  This is not ready for release, despite having spent a considerable amount
  of time on it, it's not working to my expectations, so who knows when :(

 ----

